<p>Identification of malignant from normal cells from microscopic images is very difficult because morphologically both types of cells appear similar. They are also very expensive and not widely available. Usually cancer cells are detected in advanced stages using microscopic images because of the medical expertise as those malignance cells are present in a much greater number as compared to normal people. Therefore, it is very important to detect those cells at an early stage for better cure and improving the survival of the subject. This is where cell classification via image processing comes into play to provide a solution which can be deployed easily at lesser cost.</p>
<p>Image classification models are proving to be very helpful in cancer cell detection problems. However, imaging processing models require very large datasets in order to obtain good results, which means expensive computation is required. This is where Apache Sparks comes into play. As a framework for distributed computation, Spark will allow us to build deep learning models which are very computationally heavy. There are many ways to do Deep learning with Apache Spark. These methods go from distributed DL with Keras and Pyspark, to Tensorflow on Spark or bigDL. In this project we will discuss the different methods that exist nowadays to work with deep learning models in Spark and we will implement some of these methods to see how they vary from each other.</p>
<p>For this project we will store the data in an Amazon Web Series S3 bucket and we will use Spark in two different platforms, one will be in an EMR cluster and the second will be using Amazon Sagemaker. All of these technologies mentioned will be explained in detail in the project.</p>
